# Code Book #

## The full dataset (X_all.txt) ##
The dataset contains the observations for each subject and the activities they did.
The columns are classified by unit, signal, device, variable and axis.

The units are:
- time - the time domain
- frequency - the frequency domain

The signals are:
- Body - the device body
- Gravity - gravity itself
- Jerk

The devices are
- Accelerometer - a device that measures acceleration
- Gyroscope - a device that measures angular momentum

The axes are
- X
- Y
- Z

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 
mean: Mean value
standardDeviation: Standard deviation
meanFrequency: Weighted average of the frequency components to obtain a mean frequency

Then Mag means Magnitude.

So given the column name timeBodyAccelerometer-mean()-X,
we can tell that this is column contains a measurement obtained from
- a time signal
- the body acceleration
- the accelerometer device
- it's along the X axis
- the variable used for this calculation was mean

## The average dataset ##
This dataset contains the average for each variable per subject and activity in the full dataset.

The variables for this dataset are
- subject - the subject that did the activity
- activity - the label of the physical activity that was done
- measurement - the measurement obtained from the device
- average - the average of all the values obtained per subject and activity from the full dataset.

## Transformations ##
-The features.txt was read in and the feature labels were replaced with more descriptive names.
- These descriptive feature names were then applied to the train and test X datasets.
- The activity IDs and subject IDs were read in and then appended to their respective datasets (train & test).
- The test and train datasets were merged into 1 dataset.
- The activity IDs were replaced with descriptive names instead by merging the full dataset with the activity_labels.txt dataset.
- Only columns containing mean, meanFrequency and standardDeviation were included along with the subject and activity columns.

- The second dataset was generated by reshaping the dataset so that the measurements were rows.
- While reshaping the data, their averages were taken and put in the next column.
- That's it.